---
author: Pramod Chavali
---

Imagine that a field linguist is trying to determine the meaning of a
set of natural kind terms in a hitherto unknown language. She might go
about this task in at least two different ways. Assuming there is a
shared language between her and native speakers of this language, she
could ask these speakers to describe what they think the meaning of
these words are; to make public the ways in which they conceptualize the
category of objects to which these words refer. Let us call this the
internalist approach. According to a second strategy, one that does not
depend on the existence of a shared third language, our linguist might
observe instances where speakers use these words to refer to objects and
then identify the categories into which these sampled referents sort. In
this case, the meaning of a given word is determined, following Putnam
(Putnam 1973, pg. 702), by a relationship of \"being of the same kind\"
obtaining between the members of the set of observed referents and the
set of possible referents. Let us call this second approach the
externalist approach.

Where the two approaches above represent distinct answers to the
epistemic question: \"How do we come to know the meaning of an term?\";
we can formulate an equivalent ontic question as, \"What is it in virtue
of which a term is assigned its reference?\". To this latter question,
again, we can offer an internalist and an externalist response.
Following Frege (Frege 1948, pg. 210), we distinguish between the
reference of a sign and its sense. Whereas the reference of a sign
contributes to the truth value of the sentences in which it features,
its sense contributes to the content of the mental states generated by
understanding sentences featuring that term. In addition, the sense
determines the truth value of a proposition by fixing the reference of
the term which features in the sentences that express it. In other
words, given some term *T* and its sense S:

\(1\) Knowing the meaning of *T* involves being in a mental state whose
content features S (2) S determines the reference of *T*

In advance of any formal arguments, we may note the intuitive appeal of
a view of this sort in tying together the ontic and epistemic questions
about the meaning of terms: the very same thing that fixes the reference
of a term forms the content of the mental state involved in knowing its
meaning. An externalist view, by denying one or both of the above
assertions, complicates their theory by sundering the epistemic question
from the ontic one. Why, then, might we prefer an externalist theory? In
his essay *Meaning and Reference* (Putnam 1973), Putnam poses a serious
problem for internalist theories of meaning. The argument runs as
follows:

Consider a possible world W that is nearly identical to the actual world
A. Except, wherever there is the substance H20 in our world, there is in
its place a chemical substance XYZ in world W that is indistinguishable
in its physical and biological properties but differs in certain
chemical properties. All biological and macroscopic processes involving
these two substances run the same and a lay observer confronted with
samples of each would be unable to tell the difference between them.
However, trained chemists in either world could readily distinguish them
upon chemical analysis. Now, let us suppose one further difference
between A and W: the word pronounced \'water\' in A refers to H20, but
the word pronounced this way in W refers to XYZ. In such a world, for at
least the vast majority of English speakers, the mental states involved
in knowing the meaning of these two words or grasping the meanings of
sentences featuring them would be identical. Nonetheless, the reference
of the words are different between the two worlds. The lesson is that
whatever fixes the reference of the word in each world cannot be the
same as what features in the content of mental states involved in
knowing their meanings. So, the internalist supposition is false (Putnam
1973, pg. 701).

One immediate response available to the internalist is to push against
the premise that the meaning of water is really different between the
two worlds. Since the majority of English speakers in W would indeed
call H20 \'water\', there is some prima facie plausibility to this
response. Against this, Putnam offers a slight modification to the
original counterfactual. Consider a possible world W2 in which the
proportion of molybdenum and aluminum on earth are contraposed so that
molybdenum is an abundant and easily accessible building material
whereas aluminum is exceedingly rare. Furthermore, assume that the
meanings of the words pronounced \'aluminum\' and \'molybdenum\' are
switched in W2, such that \'aluminum\' refers to molybdenum and
\'molybdenum\' refers to aluminum. Now, because of the superficial
similarity in the physical properties of these two metals, the vast
majority of English speakers in both A and W2 would have identical
concepts associated with the words \'aluminum\' in their respective
worlds, since they would be unable to readily distinguish between the
two. Wherever we, in A, say \'aluminum\', they also say \'aluminum\' and
wherever we say \'molybdenum\', they also say \'molybdenum\'. Given,
however, that in each case the referent is switched between the two
worlds; either the word \'aluminum\' must refer to a different substance
in A from what it refers to in W2, or the two words \'aluminum\' and
\'molybdenum\' must refer to the same substances across both worlds.
Since the latter is plainly false, we must accept that the words
\'aluminum\' in A and W2 have different referents(Putnam 1973, pg. 703).

To clarify the issues at stake here, we need a more general account of
how it is that the extension of a word is fixed if the concept involved
in grasping the meaning of the word is incapable of doing this work.
Putnam provides an account of this reference fixing by treating natural
kind terms as involving hidden indexicals whose scope when quantifying
across possible words is fixed, as with Kripkean rigid designators, by
its reference in the actual world. Intuitively, we could understand the
reference fixing in terms of a sort of ostensive definition, as in when
a speaker of the language points to an object and says, \"this is
water.\" In this case, we can understand the definition as stipulating
that the referent of the word \'water\' must of the same kind (same~k~)
as the referent of the indexical \'this\' (Putnam 1973, pg. 702). In
symbolic terms:

\(3\) □∀x.x same~k~ this ≡ x is water

Where by \'water\', we mean the *actual* word \'water\' (rather than the
word pronounced \"water\" in W).

Putnam\'s point is that, presented this way, the formulism is ambiguous
because we have not specified the scope of the indexical \'this\' with
respect to the modal operator. If we read the indexical *de dicto*, then
the word \'water\' has the same meaning across worlds but its reference
is world-relative, referring to H20 in A but XYZ in W. Read *de re*, on
the other hand, the word rigidly designates the substance type H20,
having the same reference across possible worlds. In this case, the
actual word \'water\' is a different word, i.e. means something
different, than what is pronounced as \'water\' by English speakers in
W, despite the fact that the content of the speakers\' mental states are
the same. The argument involving \'aluminum\' and \'molybdenum\'
suggests that, of the two, the *de re* formulation is the correct
theory(Putnam 1973, pg. 707).

Or, more formally, for any given natural kind term T and the set O(T) of
the actual referents of T (i.e. those available for ostentation); the
set R(T) of all possible referents of T can be defined by the
bi-conditional:

\(4\) □∀xy.y ∈ O(T) ⇒ (x same~k~ y ≡ x ∈ R(T))

So, what do the internalists have to say to this? The problem with the
formulation in (4) for the reference fixing of words referring to kinds
of substances can be seen more clearly when we highlight a core
dis-analogy between proper names and natural kind terms that makes
specifying the identity conditions involved in constructing rigid
designators possible in the former case but problematic in the later.
Namely, unlike with the identity relation for individuals, there is no
way to construct, in general, a unique relation same~k~ that obtains
pairwise for all elements in a given set and which also obtains between
elements not in this set. The consequence of this is that the set of all
actual referents of a word are not sufficient to uniquely fix that
word\'s referent across all possible worlds.

Consider, for example, the word \'elm\'. The ostensive definition for
the word \'elm\', based on the formula (4) would be:

\(5\) □∀xy.y ∈ O(elm) ⇒ (x same~k~ y ≡ x ∈ R(elm))

But, notice that there are different subspecies of elm, such as american
elm, bosque elm, etc. So, we can construct a similar definition for the
natural kind term \'bosque elm\':

\(6\) □∀xy.y ∈ O(bosque elm) ⇒ (x same~k~ y ≡ x ∈ R(bosque elm))

However, because O(bosque elm) ⊂ O(elm), there exist some e and b, such
that:

\(7\) b ∈ O(elm) (8) b ∈ O(bosque elm) (9) e ∈ R(elm) (10) e ∉ R(bosque
elm)

Given (7), (9), and (5), we can derive:

\(11\) b same~k~ e

However, from (6) and (11), we can derive:

\(12\) e ∈ R(bosque elm)

Which contradicts (10).

The issue is this: It is not sufficient that some object be same~k~ as
the ostended referent for it to be referable by the same kind term,
rather it matters *in what way* they are the same. It is true that b
same~k~ e, but not that b same~k~ e *qua* being a bosque elm. However,
there is no way to specify this qualified relation purely in terms of
same~k~ and the set of actual referents of the term \'bosque elm\'
without sneaking in the concept of \'bosque elm\' back in as a
primitive. In other words, it is not possible to determine the referents
of a term across all possible worlds purely based on 3rd person
observations of its actual referents, as given in observed instances of
its use by its linguistic community.

# Bibliography
